Hello, I'm Professor
Jessica Wachter.
First, I'm going to describe
the goal of the
next three modules.
So the subject of Cryptocurrency
has attracted
considerable attention.
Now, some of
this attention has been
positive focusing on
the potential for
cryptocurrency to disrupt
existing monopolies
and give power to consumers
but some has been
highly negative.
Cryptocurrency has been referred
to as a fraud or worse.
So there have been wild
and misleading claims
both on the positive and
on the negative side.
Nonetheless,
more than 11 years after
the distribution of Satoshi
Nakamoto's famous whitepaper,
some things are clear.
The first is
that cryptocurrency and
the associate technology
of blockchain and
distributed consensus
has staying power and
cryptocurrency is
inherently a hard subject
as it combines knowledge
from computer science,
cryptography, finance,
economics, even probability,
law, and philosophy.
So in other words, the barrier to
entry to cryptocurrency
is understanding.
So this set of modules is
intended to serve
as an introduction.
The references I will provide
can serve as a guide
if you decide
further investment
in understanding
cryptocurrency is right for you.
Now, these lectures are
designed for a listener with
a background in finance which
is where I'm coming from.
No background in
computer science is necessary,
though some of the concepts in
the second module
may be challenging.
But the most important
requirement is
a strong interest in the subject.
So here's a summary
of the modules.
The first module is about
the basics of cryptocurrency.
What is it and what are
the problems it is
designed to solve?
The second module covers
blockchain and distributed
consensus protocols.
How do these relate
to cryptocurrencies?
What are they and
how are they used?
Finally, in the third module,
I will describe cryptocurrency
as an asset class.